---
title: '2018 Thu Apr 12'
date: 2018-04-12
---

## 2018 Thu Apr 12

Been learning Python this week. Also been learning about the medical world and telemedicine.

##### Python

- [`pytest`](https://docs.pytest.org/en/latest/) is a test framework/runner that comes installed with python. Its job appears to be to provide a command line tool, a concept of fixtures, ability for test functions to inject those fixtures as arguments, many other things like the concept of marks which is essentially a way of tagging test functions for targeting later on e.g. `pytest -m "not integration"` would run all tests except those marked with `integration`.

  ```python
  # fixtures.py

  @pytest.fixture
  def foobar():
    return 1

  # tests.py

  # foobar is magically dependency injected
  def test_whatever(foobar):
    assert foobar === 1
  ```

- Python has the concept of `yield` and `with`. This is akin to ruby's concept of passing blocks to functions for execution. It has nothing to do with `yield` in JavaScript which has to do with generators.

  ```python
  def demo_yielding_to_foobar():
    with yielder():
      run().some().code()

  def yielder():
    yield # block of code passed will run here!
  ```

- [`unittest`](https://docs.python.org/3.6/library/unittest.html) was a community library that became standardized in the langauge in Pythong 3.3 or some such. It provides mocking facilities, patching of imported dependencies, its own test runner and test discover features. It seems that pytest is a bit more robust from a framework runner POV. That said it supports using `unittest` anyways.

- Python seems to have a lot of quality of life features in its tooling such as conventional file names to function as entrypoints to tests, program, etc. `__init__.py` is an entrypoint file a program.
