---
title: '2018 Mon Mar 12'
date: 2018-03-12
---

## 2018 Mon Mar 12

##### Carefully `alter`

Had some kind of issue with a MySQL table today. Possibly because of a bad `ALTER`. Attempted a column alteration from `VARCHAR` to `INT` with length `11` but my db client application (MacOS, Sequel Pro) hung at this point. I force quit but since then I think the table has been unloadable. Attempting to access says loading indefinetely. Will investigate solution tomorrow but lesson today. Next time doing alter:

1. copy table structure to new temp table
2. make alterations
3. copy data
4. delete old table
5. rename new table to old

##### Haskell `let` v `where`

Haskell has two ways of binding variables `let` and `where`. `let` is an expression and `where` is a declaration. The difference is `let` can go wherever an expression can go. For example:

```haskell
Prelude
ğº a = let b = 2 in b

Prelude
ğº a
2

Prelude
ğº b

<interactive>:5:1: error: Variable not in scope: b
```

1. We assign an expression to `a` which itself contains a let binding assigned `2` to `b`. We just return `b` there.
2. We prove that `a` has been assigned the bound value to `b`
3. We prove that the binding `b` was local to the expression within assignment to `a`.

On the other hand since `where` is bound to syntactic structure it can provide some unique affordances to the user. For example it introduces variables across function pattern matches:

```haskell
Prelude
ğº :{
Prelude| foobar 1 = 1 + a
Prelude| foobar 2 = 2 + a
Prelude| foobar _ = a
Prelude|   where a = 10
Prelude| :}

Prelude
ğº foobar 1
3

Prelude
ğº foobar 2
4

Prelude
ğº foobar 3
10
```

Note how the `a = 10` binding was in scope for all three pattern-matched definitons of `foobar`.

Regarding this topic there is considerably more detail on the [Haskell Wiki](https://wiki.haskell.org/Let_vs._Where). It seems that the main advantage of `where` is its readability. Even the ability to share `where` across multiple function pattern matches can be achieved somewhat using `case-of`.

##### Lambda Lifting

Turn `Free Variables` (those not found in the function's parameters) into arguments. For example:

```haskell
foo a =
  a + b
  where
    b = a + 1
```

```haskell
foo a =
  a + b a
  where
    b a = a + 1
```
